# Building web apps with organizations

When you build an application using Dashboard you need to set up your Dashboard server on its own hosting and write your application.  Because Dashboard handles a lot of content for you your application only neeeds a `/` guest landing page and `/home` user application page to get started.

## Set up a copy of Dashboard

Dashboard is self-hosted and open source, you need to deploy it to eg Heroku or Digital Ocean or AWS before you can use.  Dashboard is a NodeJS project requiring node `12.13.1`.

    $ mkdir dashboard-server
    $ cd dashboard-server
    $ npm init
    $ npm install @userdashboard/dashboard
    $ npm install @userdashboard/organizations
    $ echo "require('@userdashboard/dashboard').start(__dirname)" > main.js
    
Edit package.json to activate module:
    
    "dashboard": {
     "modules": [
       "@userdashboard/organizations"
     ]
    }

Start your dashboard server:

    $ NODE_ENV="production" \
      DASHBOARD_SERVER="http://localhost:8000" \
      APPLICATION_SERVER="http://localhost:8001" \
      APPLICATION_SERVER_TOKEN="abcdef123456" \
      DOMAIN="localhost:8000" \
      node main.js

### Write your application

The example above expects your application server to be listening on localhost:8001, it needs to serve a guest landing page on `/` and a `/home` page for your users.  At a minimum these are the only two pages your application needs to serve.

When it is ready you can open your application at `http://localhost:8000`, the first account to register is the website owner with the unique authority to assign and revoke administrators.  You will want to include `<html auth="false" template="false">` in your guest landing page.

### Request organization data from your application server

Perform a GET request to your dashboard server's `/api/user/organizations/memberships?all=true&accountid=x` on behalf of any user to see which organizations they are in and use that data to allow shared access to resources or whatever other purpose.
